docs: write a lot of words about heartbeats (#14679)
hashicorp/nomad: website/content/docs/configuration/server.mdx

  example section](#configuring-scheduler-config) for more details
  `default_scheduler_config` was introduced in Nomad 0.10.4.

- `heartbeat_grace` `(string: "10s")` - Specifies the additional time given
  beyond the heartbeat TTL of Clients to account for network and processing
  delays and clock skew. This is specified using a label suffix like "30s" or
  "1h". See [below](#client-heartbeats) for details.

- `min_heartbeat_ttl` `(string: "10s")` - Specifies the minimum time between
  Client heartbeats. This is used as a floor to prevent excessive updates. This
  is specified using a label suffix like "30s" or "1h". See
  [below](#client-heartbeats) for details.

- `failover_heartbeat_ttl` `(string: "5m")` - The time by which all Clients
  must heartbeat after a Server leader election. This is specified using a label

>   suffix like "30s" or "1h". See [below](#client-heartbeats) for details.

Reviewer: Including the name of the header section helps orient the reader once they land (particularly for folks with non-default text zoom settings for reading assistance):

```suggestion
  suffix like "30s" or "1h". See [Client Heartbeats](#client-heartbeats) below for details.
```

Author: Thanks! Fixed up all the references.

}
```

## Client Heartbeats ((#client-heartbeats))

~> This is an advanced topic. It is most beneficial to clusters over 1,000
   nodes or with unreliable networks or nodes (eg some edge deployments).

Nomad Clients periodically heartbeat to Nomad Servers to confirm they are
operating as expected. Nomad Clients which do not heartbeat in the specified
amount of time are considered `down` and their allocations are marked as `lost`
or `disconnected` (if [`max_client_disconnect`][max_client_disconnect] is set)
and rescheduled.

The various heartbeat related parameters allow you to tune the following
tradeoffs:

> - The longer the heartbeat period, the longer a down Client's workload will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The longer the heartbeat period, the longer a `down` Client's workload will
```

  take to be rescheduled.
- The shorter the heartbeat period, the more likely transient network issues,
  leader elections, and other temporary issues could cause a perfectly
  functional Client and its workloads to be marked as `down` and the work
  rescheduled.

While Nomad Clients can connect to any Server, all heartbeats are forwarded to
the leader for processing. Since this heartbeat processing consumes resources,
Nomad adjusts the rate at which Clients heartbeat based on cluster size. The
goal is to try to keep the resource cost of processing heartbeats constant
regardless of cluster size.

The base formula for determining how often a Client must heartbeat is:

```
<number of Clients> / <max_heartbeats_per_second> 
```

Other factors modify this base TTL:

- A random factor up to `2x` is added to the base TTL to prevent the
  [thundering herd][herd] problem where a large number of clients attempt to
  heartbeat at exactly the same time.

> - [`min_heartbeat_ttl`](#min_heartbeat_ttl) is used as the lower bound to
>   prevent small clusters from needlessly heartbeating extremely quickly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`min_heartbeat_ttl`](#min_heartbeat_ttl) is used as the lower bound to
  prevent small clusters from sending excessive heartbeats.
```

- [`heartbeat_grace`](#heartbeat_grace) is the amount of _extra_ time the
  leader will wait for a heartbeat beyond the base heartbeat.
- After a leader election all Clients are given up to `failover_heartbeat_ttl`
  to successfully heartbeat. This gives Clients time to discover a functioning
  Server in case they were directly connected to a leader that crashed.

> Given the default values for heartbeat parameters, different sized clusters
> will use the following TTLs for the heartbeats. Note that the `Server TTL`
> simply adds the `heartbeat_grace` parameter to the TTL Clients are given.

Reviewer: We might want to specifically call out that these are examples so that it's clear this isn't new information that contradicts the above:

```suggestion
For example, given the default values for heartbeat parameters, different sized 
clusters will use the following TTLs for the heartbeats. Note that the `Server TTL`
simply adds the `heartbeat_grace` parameter to the TTL Clients are given.
```

| Clients | Client TTL  | Server TTL  | Safe after elections |
| ------- | ----------- | ----------- | -------------------- |
| 10      | 10s - 20s   | 20s - 30s   | yes                  |
| 100     | 10s - 20s   | 20s - 30s   | yes                  |
| 1000    | 20s - 40s   | 30s - 50s   | yes                  |
| 5000    | 100s - 200s | 110s - 210s | yes                  |
| 10000   | 200s - 400s | 210s - 410s | NO (see below)       |

Regardless of size, all clients will have a Server TTL of
`failover_heartbeat_ttl` after a leader election. It should always be larger
than the maximum Client TTL for your cluster size in order to prevent marking
live Clients as `down`.

> For clusters over 5000 Clients it is recommended to increase
> `failover_heartbeat_ttl` using the following:

Reviewer: I think we can make this sentence more direct, as it's not all that optional:

```suggestion
For clusters over 5000 Clients you should increase `failover_heartbeat_ttl` 
using the following formula:
```

```
(2 * (<number of Clients> / <max_heartbeats_per_second>)) + (10 * <min_heartbeat_ttl>)

# For example with 6000 Clients:
(2 * (6000 / 50)) + (10 * 10) = 340s (5m40s)
```

This ensures Clients have some additional time to failover even if they were
told to heartbeat after the maximum interval.

The actual value used should take into consideration how much tolerance your
system has for a delay in noticing crashed Clients. A `failover_heartbeat_ttl`
of 30 minutes may give even the largest cluster ample time to heartbeat after
an election, but could cause a 30 minute outage for services on crashed Clients

> instead of a 30 second outage if `failover_heartbeat_ttl`.

Author: Ha, good catch. I'm going to rework that whole unwieldy sentence.
